# Ng Users Practice / Docs


## Stage 1

Create a repository called "ng-users-practice" using the [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli). Confirm that you want to add routing to the project, and select Sass as the css compiler. 

In `src/app`, create a new module called "core". Inside "core" module, create directories for components and services.

Your `src/app` directory structure should look like this:

```bash
.
├── app-routing.module.ts
├── app.component.html
├── app.component.scss
├── app.component.spec.ts
├── app.component.ts
├── app.module.ts
└── core
    ├── components
    ├── core.module.ts
    └── services
```

*You could add a `.gitkeep` file in components and services directory*.

Add the paths to the `src/app` and `src/app/core` directory in your `tsconfig.json` file.

Import "core" module into "app" module.

*Optionally, add some logic to allow the "core" module to be loaded once.*


---


## Stage 2

In "core" module, create 3 components:
* a component for the home page, called "home"
* a component for missed urls, called "page-not-found"
* a component for the main navigation, called "topnav"

*You could remove the `.gitkeep` file from components directory*.

In the app routing module `app-routing.module.ts`, import the "home" and "page-not-found" components. Create an empty path for the "home" component, and a wildcard path for the "page-not-found" component.

In the "topnav" component, add a navigation with a link to the "home" component.

In the "app" template, remove all html generated by Angular CLI and add the "topnav" component and the `<router-outlet>`.


## Stage 3

In `src/app` directory create a module called "users".

Add the path to `src/app/users` in `tsconfig.json`.

Import the module "users" into the "app" module.

In "users" module, create directories for components and services.

Create 2 components, "users-list" and "users-details".

Create a service called "users-api".

Create a routing module for the "users" module and add a path for "users-list" (`users`) and "users-detail" (`users/:id`). Import this routing module into the "app" routing module.

In the "topnav" component add a link to the `users` path.



---


## Stage 4

Create a directory "interfaces" in `src/users`. Create a typescript interface to define the shape of the user object returned by the API. The interface should have the following properties:
* name: string
* email: string
* id: number
* created: number

Clone this repository https://github.com/pablozadro/mock-api.git, and follow the instructions in the `README.md` file in order to get the Mock API running. In the `.env` file put the `PORT` that you want the API listens to. The final endpoint to fetch the users should be something like `http://localhost:<PORT>/api/v1/users`.

In the "users-api" service, create a method that get the users from this endpoint using the [fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch), and return the users array. Use the interface for the method return type.

Also add a method that return a single user using an id as parameter.

In "users-list" component, use "users-api" method added to fetch the users and render a list of users.
Each user item should display an `<a>` element with a link to the `users/:id` route.

In "users-detail" component, get the id parameter from the url using the  [Activated Route](https://angular.io/guide/router-reference#activated-route) and save it in a component property called "id". Then use the method added on the "users-api" to return a user for a certain id, and display the user detail.